---
layout: post
title: Safe Autonomous Aerial Vehicles
date: 2024-08-20 16:40:16
description: Assured and Dependable Autonomy in Aerial Vehicles
tags: autonomous-systems
categories: autonomy
---
In the realm of autonomy, assurance refers to our ability to probabilistically ensure that systems will operate within established behavioral boundaries, even when individual components experience failures or are subjected to attacks. These behaviors may pertain to aspects such as safety, integrity, availability, or related properties. In certain cases, the system has the capability to self-correct or self-recover to return to a safe state. The boundaries of this safe state are determined by the system's internal conditions and its external environment, including any disruptions introduced by adversaries. Additionally, achieving the assured functionality may need to occur within specific time constraints.


The evolution of aerial vehicles, namely unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and air taxis in urban air mobility (UAM) has introduced a modern era of autonomy in aviation. As these systems are being adopted in logistics, assured autonomy is integral to the success and acceptance of these technologies. Assured autonomy in aerial vehicles is the level of confidence that these aerial systems or vehicles will operate safely and efficiently according to established safety protocols or regulations. Assured autonomy is essential, particularly in the case of human lives or sensitive operations. Dependable autonomy, on the other hand, refers to the assurance and robustness of aerial systems. Dependable autonomy offers assurance of performance and functionality in normal and adverse conditions such as bad weather,  faults, or unexpected obstacles. For example, a dependable aerial vehicle can operate in rain, wind, and urban landscapes filled with buildings and other structures. 

Dependable autonomy is not only crucial for performance and functionality- offering additional assurance to users and regulators- but is also integral for establishing trust. From the perspective of safety, aerial vehicle operations can generate detrimental results including, but not limited to, an accident resulting in injuries and/or damages to persons, property, or the environment. Therefore, gaining the assurance an aerial vehicle can make safe decisions autonomously, is paramount. Also with the further commercial applications of aerial vehicles, for example, for transportation, aerial photography, etc., comes regulatory compliance.  Assured and dependable autonomy helps to meet regulatory requirements outlined by aviation authorities. Achieving the objectives of assured and dependable autonomous aerial vehicles involves several strategies at a minimum. Most important is robust testing and validation processes that include thorough simulations and real-world testing to evaluate aerial vehicles' performance under different conditions and scenarios. Continuous monitoring systems can also be implemented to track the performance of these vehicles in real-time. Additionally, incorporating fail-safe mechanisms and fault-tolerant control is critical; these systems should be designed to revert to a safe state in case of a malfunction, ensuring that the vehicle can land safely or return to its base.

Finally, collaboration among experts from various fields, including aerospace engineering, electrical engineering, artificial intelligence, and regulatory affairs, is essential to develop a comprehensive framework for assured and dependable autonomy in aerial vehicles.

