---
layout: post
title: Assured and Dependable Autonomy in Aerial Vehicles
date: 2024-08-28 10:20:15
description: 
tags: autonomy, autonomous systems, safety, fault-tolerant control, UAV
categories: autonomy
---
The evolution of aerial vehicles, namely unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and air taxis in urban air mobility (UAM) has introduced a modern era of autonomy in aviation. As these systems are being adopted in logistics, assured autonomy is integral to the success and acceptance of these technologies. Assured autonomy in aerial vehicles is the level of confidence that these aerial systems or vehicles will operate safely and efficiently according to established safety protocols or regulations. Assured autonomy is essential, particularly in the case of human lives or sensitive operations. Dependable autonomy, on the other hand, refers to the assurance and robustness of aerial systems. Dependable autonomy offers assurance of performance and functionality in normal and adverse conditions such as bad weather,  faults, or unexpected obstacles. For example, a dependable aerial vehicle can operate in rain, wind, and urban landscapes filled with buildings and other structures. 

Dependable autonomy is not only crucial for performance and functionality- offering additional assurance to users and regulators- but is also integral for establishing trust. From the perspective of safety, aerial vehicle operations can generate detrimental results including, but not limited to, an accident resulting in injuries and/or damages to persons, property, or the environment. Therefore, gaining the assurance an aerial vehicle can make safe decisions autonomously, is paramount. Also with the further commercial applications of aerial vehicles, for example, for transportation, aerial photography, etc., comes regulatory compliance.  Assured and dependable autonomy helps to meet regulatory requirements outlined by aviation authorities. Achieving the objectives of assured and dependable autonomous aerial vehicles involves several strategies at a minimum. Most important is robust testing and validation processes that include thorough simulations and real-world testing to evaluate aerial vehicles' performance under different conditions and scenarios. Continuous monitoring systems can also be implemented to track the performance of these vehicles in real-time. Additionally, incorporating fail-safe mechanisms and fault-tolerant control is critical; these systems should be designed to revert to a safe state in case of a malfunction, ensuring that the vehicle can land safely or return to its base.

 Finally, collaboration among experts from various fields, including aerospace engineering, electrical engineering, artificial intelligence, and regulatory affairs, is essential to develop a comprehensive framework for assured and dependable autonomy in aerial vehicles.
